monasca_tempest_tests/README.md, before:

# Introduction
The Monasca Tempest Tests use the [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html). This README describes how to configure and run them using a variety of methods.
Currently the monasca-vagrant environment is needed to run the tests. Instructions on setting up a monasca-vagrant environment can be found here: https://github.com/openstack/monasca-vagrant. This document will be updated when the environment is switched to the DevStack environment.

# Configuring to run the Monasca Tempest Tests
1. Clone the OpenStack Tempest repo, and cd to it.

   ```
   git clone https://git.openstack.org/openstack/tempest.git
   cd tempest
   ```
2. Create a virtualenv for running the Tempest tests and activate it. For example in the Tempest root dir

    ```
    virtualenv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```
3. Install the Tempest requirements in the virtualenv.

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt -r test-requirements.txt
    pip install nose
    ```
4. Create ```etc/tempest.conf``` in the Tempest root dir by running the following command:

    ```
    oslo-config-generator --config-file  etc/config-generator.tempest.conf  --output-file etc/tempest.conf
    ```

    Add the following sections to ```tempest.conf``` for testing using the monasca-vagrant environment.

   ```
    [identity]

    username = mini-mon
    password = password
    tenant_name = mini-mon
    domain_name = default
    admin_username = admin
    admin_password = admin
    admin_domain_name = default
    admin_tenant_name = admin
    alt_username = mini-mon
    alt_password = password
    alt_tenant_name = mini-mon
    use_ssl = False
    auth_version = v3
    uri = http://192.168.10.5:5000/v2.0/
    uri_v3 = http://192.168.10.5:35357/v3/

    [auth]

    allow_tenant_isolation = true
    tempest_roles = monasca-user

    ```

    Edit the the variable values in the identity section to match your particular monasca-vagrant environment.

5. Create ```etc/logging.conf``` in the Tempest root dir by making a copying ```logging.conf.sample```.

6. Clone the monasca-api repo in a directory somewhere outside of the Tempest root dir.

7. Install the monasca-api in your venv, which will also register
   the Monasca Tempest Plugin as, monasca_tests.

   cd into the monasca-api root directory. Making sure that the tempest virtual env is still active,
   run the following command.

    ```
    python setup.py install
    ```

See the [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html), for more details on Tempest Plugins and the plugin registration process.

# Running the Monasca Tempest Tests
The Monasca Tempest Tests can be run using a variety of methods including:
1. [Testr](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Testr)
2. [Os-testr](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/os-testr/)
3. [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)
4. Tempest Scripts in Devstack

## Run the tests from the CLI using testr

[Testr](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Testr) is a test runner that can be used to run the Tempest tests.

1. Initializing testr is necessary to set up the .testrepository directory before using it for the first time. In the Tempest root dir:

    ```
    testr init
    ```

2. Create a list of the Monasca Tempest Tests in a file:

    ```
    testr list-tests monasca_tempest_tests > monasca_tempest_tests

    ```

3. Run the tests using testr:

    ```
    testr run --load-list=monasca_tempest_tests
    ```
You can also use testr to create a list of specific tests for your needs.

## Run the tests from the CLI using os-testr (no file necessary)
[Os-testr](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/os-testr/) is a test wrapper that can be used to run the Monasca Tempest tests.

1. In the Tempest root dir:

    ```
    ostestr --serial --regex monasca_tempest_tests
    ```
    ```--serial``` option is necessary here. Monasca tempest tests can't be run in parallel (default option in ostestr) because some tests depend on the same data and will randomly fail.

## Running/Debugging the Monasca Tempest Tests in PyCharm

Assuming that you have already created a PyCharm project for the ```monasca-api``` do the following:

1. In PyCharm, Edit Configurations and add a new Python tests configuration by selecting Python tests->Nosetests.
2. Name the test. For example TestVersions.
3. Set the path to the script with the tests to run. For example, ~/repos/monasca-api/monasca_tempest_tests/api/test_versions.py
4. Set the name of the Class to test. For example TestVersions.
5. Set the working directory to your local root Tempest repo. For example, ~/repos/tempest.
6. Select the Python interpreter for your project to be the same as the one virtualenv created above. For example, ~/repos/tempest/.venv
7. Run the tests. You should also be able to debug them.
8. Step and repeat for other tests.

## Run the tests from the CLI using tempest scripts in devstack

1. In /opt/stack/tempest, run ```./run_tempest.sh monasca_tempest_tests```
2. If asked to create a new virtual environment, select yes
3. Activate the virtual environment ```source .venv/bin/activate```
4. In your monasca-api directory, run ```python setup.py install```
5. In /opt/stack/tempest, run ```./run_tempest.sh monasca_tempest_tests```

# References
This section provides a few additional references that might be useful:
* [Tempest - The OpenStack Integration Test Suite](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/overview.html#quickstart)
* [Tempest Configuration Guide](https://github.com/openstack/tempest/blob/master/doc/source/configuration.rst#id1)
* [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html)

In addition to the above references, another source of information is the following OpenStack projects:
* [Manila Tempest Tests](https://github.com/openstack/manila/tree/master/manila_tempest_tests)
* [Congress Tempest Tests](https://github.com/openstack/congress/tree/master/congress_tempest_tests).
In particular, the Manila Tempest Tests were used as a reference implementation to develop the Monasca Tempest Tests. There is also a wiki [HOWTO use tempest with manila](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila/docs/HOWTO_use_tempest_with_manila) that might be useful for Monasca too.

# Issues
* Update documentation for testing using Devstack when available.
* Consider changing from monasca_tempest_tests to monasca_api_tempest_tests.

Commit message:

Add Tempest Run option to README
This patch adds "tempest run" as one of the options to run
the monasca tempest tests.

See bp tempest-run-cmd for details.

Change-Id: Idcfa09b86775642e5f3698d2a2ec8ffd7e39b817

monasca_tempest_tests/README.md, after:

# Introduction
The Monasca Tempest Tests use the [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html). This README describes how to configure and run them using a variety of methods.
Currently the monasca-vagrant environment is needed to run the tests. Instructions on setting up a monasca-vagrant environment can be found here: https://github.com/openstack/monasca-vagrant. This document will be updated when the environment is switched to the DevStack environment.

# Configuring to run the Monasca Tempest Tests
1. Clone the OpenStack Tempest repo, and cd to it.

   ```
   git clone https://git.openstack.org/openstack/tempest.git
   cd tempest
   ```
2. Create a virtualenv for running the Tempest tests and activate it. For example in the Tempest root dir

    ```
    virtualenv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```
3. Install the Tempest requirements in the virtualenv.

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt -r test-requirements.txt
    pip install nose
    ```
4. Create ```etc/tempest.conf``` in the Tempest root dir by running the following command:

    ```
    oslo-config-generator --config-file  etc/config-generator.tempest.conf  --output-file etc/tempest.conf
    ```

    Add the following sections to ```tempest.conf``` for testing using the monasca-vagrant environment.

   ```
    [identity]

    username = mini-mon
    password = password
    tenant_name = mini-mon
    domain_name = default
    admin_username = admin
    admin_password = admin
    admin_domain_name = default
    admin_tenant_name = admin
    alt_username = mini-mon
    alt_password = password
    alt_tenant_name = mini-mon
    use_ssl = False
    auth_version = v3
    uri = http://192.168.10.5:5000/v2.0/
    uri_v3 = http://192.168.10.5:35357/v3/

    [auth]

    allow_tenant_isolation = true
    tempest_roles = monasca-user

    ```

    Edit the the variable values in the identity section to match your particular monasca-vagrant environment.

5. Create ```etc/logging.conf``` in the Tempest root dir by making a copying ```logging.conf.sample```.

6. Clone the monasca-api repo in a directory somewhere outside of the Tempest root dir.

7. Install the monasca-api in your venv, which will also register
   the Monasca Tempest Plugin as, monasca_tests.

   cd into the monasca-api root directory. Making sure that the tempest virtual env is still active,
   run the following command.

    ```
    python setup.py install
    ```

See the [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html), for more details on Tempest Plugins and the plugin registration process.

# Running the Monasca Tempest Tests
The Monasca Tempest Tests can be run using a variety of methods including:
1. [Testr](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Testr)
2. [Os-testr](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/os-testr/)
3. [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)
4. Tempest Scripts in Devstack

## Run the tests from the CLI using testr

[Testr](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Testr) is a test runner that can be used to run the Tempest tests.

1. Initializing testr is necessary to set up the .testrepository directory before using it for the first time. In the Tempest root dir:

    ```
    testr init
    ```

2. Create a list of the Monasca Tempest Tests in a file:

    ```
    testr list-tests monasca_tempest_tests > monasca_tempest_tests

    ```

3. Run the tests using testr:

    ```
    testr run --load-list=monasca_tempest_tests
    ```
You can also use testr to create a list of specific tests for your needs.

## Run the tests using Tempest Run command

``tempest run`` is a domain-specific command to be used as the primary
entry point for running Tempest tests.

1. In the Tempest root dir:

    ```
    tempest run -r monasca_tempest_tests
    ```

## Run the tests from the CLI using os-testr (no file necessary)
[Os-testr](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/os-testr/) is a test wrapper that can be used to run the Monasca Tempest tests.

1. In the Tempest root dir:

    ```
    ostestr --serial --regex monasca_tempest_tests
    ```
    ```--serial``` option is necessary here. Monasca tempest tests can't be run in parallel (default option in ostestr) because some tests depend on the same data and will randomly fail.

## Running/Debugging the Monasca Tempest Tests in PyCharm

Assuming that you have already created a PyCharm project for the ```monasca-api``` do the following:

1. In PyCharm, Edit Configurations and add a new Python tests configuration by selecting Python tests->Nosetests.
2. Name the test. For example TestVersions.
3. Set the path to the script with the tests to run. For example, ~/repos/monasca-api/monasca_tempest_tests/api/test_versions.py
4. Set the name of the Class to test. For example TestVersions.
5. Set the working directory to your local root Tempest repo. For example, ~/repos/tempest.
6. Select the Python interpreter for your project to be the same as the one virtualenv created above. For example, ~/repos/tempest/.venv
7. Run the tests. You should also be able to debug them.
8. Step and repeat for other tests.

## Run the tests from the CLI using tempest scripts in devstack

1. In /opt/stack/tempest, run ```./run_tempest.sh monasca_tempest_tests```
2. If asked to create a new virtual environment, select yes
3. Activate the virtual environment ```source .venv/bin/activate```
4. In your monasca-api directory, run ```python setup.py install```
5. In /opt/stack/tempest, run ```./run_tempest.sh monasca_tempest_tests```

# References
This section provides a few additional references that might be useful:
* [Tempest - The OpenStack Integration Test Suite](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/overview.html#quickstart)
* [Tempest Configuration Guide](https://github.com/openstack/tempest/blob/master/doc/source/configuration.rst#id1)
* [OpenStack Tempest Plugin Interface](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/plugin.html)

In addition to the above references, another source of information is the following OpenStack projects:
* [Manila Tempest Tests](https://github.com/openstack/manila/tree/master/manila_tempest_tests)
* [Congress Tempest Tests](https://github.com/openstack/congress/tree/master/congress_tempest_tests).
In particular, the Manila Tempest Tests were used as a reference implementation to develop the Monasca Tempest Tests. There is also a wiki [HOWTO use tempest with manila](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila/docs/HOWTO_use_tempest_with_manila) that might be useful for Monasca too.

# Issues
* Update documentation for testing using Devstack when available.
* Consider changing from monasca_tempest_tests to monasca_api_tempest_tests.
